글 | 황티장 (Hoang Thi Trang)

그림 | 우이엔 응우이엔 (Uyen Nguyen)

편집 | 김은파, 이수인

편집 디자인 | 이혜명

베트남어 번역 | 황티장

중국어 번역 | Wenting Du, 교정: 이흠

영어 번역 | 편하련, 교정: Laura Marie Kingdon

태국어 번역 | 김주영, 감수: 분타리까 너이씨 (บุณฑริกา น้อยศรี), 교정: 채혜민

목소리 | 한국어: 황창영, 베트남어: 레 쑤언 비, 중국어: 곡효여,

영어: 제인 페인터, 태국어: 페와 떼차마하몽콘





Mai’s Vietnamese New Year’s Day

글 | 황티장

그림 | 우이엔 응우이엔





Mai lives with her parents and her brother in Hanoi, the capital of Vietnam. Mai’s family is getting ready for the biggest holiday in Vietnam, New Year’s Day. Vietnamese New Year’s Day is the first day of the year in the lunar calendar, and it is called “Tet” in Vietnamese.





People start getting ready for New Year’s Day on December 23 in the lunar calendar. In Vietnam, this day is called “the day to send the kitchen gods off.” There are three kitchen gods in each house, and they watch everything that happens in the house over the year. On New Year’s Day, they go up to heaven and report it to the heavenly emperor.





Mai is going to the market with her mom to buy three carp that the kitchen gods will ride to heaven and other food for the ceremony. There are a lot of people in the market, and they try to choose big, beautiful carp. Mai’s family have a ceremony of respect for their ancestors with food like sticky rice and living carp and then let the carp go in the lake near the house.





The next day, Mai’s family cleans up the house. As they clean out dust, they also get rid of bad things that happened in the last year and celebrate the new year with clean, fresh minds. While Mom and Dad are busy cleaning every corner of the house, Mai and her older brother help tidy up the books and toys in their rooms.





A few days later, Mom and Mai go to the flower market and buy yellow chrysanthemums, pink peach flowers, and a kumquat tree pot. For New Year’s Day, Vietnamese people decorate their houses with yellow or red flowers and trees, which mean blessings. They believe that the new year will be filled with good things if they do so.





The next morning, Mai’s parents go to the market and buy a watermelon, snacks, and some food for New Year’s Day. Vietnamese eat watermelons on New Year’s Day because they believe the red inside of a watermelon brings good luck. Mom and Dad also buy Mai’s favorite jelly and coconut cookies and gifts for her grandparents.





December 30 is the last day of the year in the lunar calendar. In the early morning, Mai’s family goes to the countryside to visit Mai’s grandparents. The family of four rides on a motorbike together for about 30 minutes to get to Grandma and Grandpa’s house. Mai’s uncle and his family are also there.





The whole family gets together and makes “banh chung”, which is New Year’s Day food. Banh chung is a square rice cake that is made from sticky rice, mung beans, and pork, then wrapped up in a large leaf and boiled. The adults are busy making the food and working with pots, leaves, and strings. While they are busy working, Mai and her older brother play with their cousins in the yard.





Once you make the mixture into a square, the next step is to boil it in a pot. It usually takes about 10 hours to boil. While banh chung is being boiled in the yard from day to night, the children watch the pot with their grandma. In the meantime, adults make foods like boiled pork for the ceremony for their ancestors.





At midnight, they set the table with lots of different foods and hold the ceremony of respect for their ancestors. During the ceremony, the whole family gets together to make a wish for the new year. At a nearby park, people are celebrating the New Year with fireworks, so Mai’s family can see the dazzling show in the night sky.





On New Year’s Day, Mai gets up early in the morning and puts on traditional Vietnamese clothing called an “ao dai” that she bought for this New Year’s Day. The adults in the family get ready to respect their ancestors. In Vietnam, people do this ceremony with holiday food at every meal for the first 3 days of a new year. After the ceremony, the whole family sits down and gives New Year’s greetings to one another. When Mai gives a New Year’s greeting to her adult relatives, they are pleased and give her the New Year’s gift of money.





Before eating breakfast, the first guest of the New Year visits grandpa. In Vietnam, people carefully choose their first guest of the New Year. This is because they believe that if the zodiac sign of the guest is a good match for that of the host, it will bring good luck. The whole family has breakfast with their guest. They eat banh chung, a New Year’s rice cake, and “nem”, fried rolls with pork and clear noodles, and then have cookies and watermelon for dessert.





After breakfast, they go to a temple together to pray for the health and happiness of the family. Whenever they meet people in the temple, they say “Happy New Year (Chuc mung nam moi).” After stopping by the temple, the family visits another relative’s house. Every time children give a New Year’s greeting to an older person, they get a gift of cash.





Mai loves New Year’s Day because she can visit her grandpa, grandma, and many other relatives, eat a lot of delicious food, and wear a beautiful new dress. She is already looking forward to the next one before this year’s Tet is over!





“마이의 베트남 설날” is licensed under CC BY 4.0 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.



© 2019 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture





