글 | 황티장 (Hoang Thi Trang)

그림 | 응우이엔 홍 안 (Nguyen Hong Anh)

편집 | 김은파, 이수인

편집 디자인 | 이혜명

베트남어 번역 | 황티장

중국어 번역 | Wenting Du, 교정: 이흠

영어 번역 | 편하련, 교정: Laura Marie Kingdon

태국어 번역 | 김주영, 감수: 분타리까 너이씨 (บุณฑริกา น้อยศรี), 교정: 채혜민

목소리 | 한국어: 황창영, 베트남어: 레 쑤언 비, 중국어: 곡효여,

영어: 제인 페인터, 태국어: 페와 떼차마하몽콘





Let’s Travel to Vietnamese Cities

글 | 황티장

그림 | 응우이엔 홍 안





Vietnam is a country in Southeast Asia. It takes about four and a half hours to get there by plane from Korea. Vietnam is a strip of land shaped like the letter S and divided into northern, central, and southern areas.

Now, let’s take a tour around Vietnam’s major cities!





The biggest city in the north is Hanoi, the capital city. Hanoi has been the capital of Vietnam since 1000 years ago. Hoan Kiem Lake is in downtown Hanoi. The turtle tower in the middle of the lake is one of many symbols of Hanoi. Many people exercise and walk around the lake in the morning and evening.





Next to Hoan Kiem Lake, there is an old town called Pho Co where you can find many old shops. In Pho Co, there are many traditional houses and souvenir shops. You can also see traditional Vietnamese puppet shows in Pho Co. Puppeteers control puppets floating on water with bamboo sticks and strings behind a stage.





Not far from Pho Co is Vietnam’s first university, Van Mieu. Van Mieu was a place to educate scholars in the old days and help them to get ready for the royal exam. The names of those who passed the royal exams are carved on turtle stones. Before a new semester begins, many parents and children come to wish for good grades.





The northern area, where Hanoi is, has four seasons like Korea. In the fall, the weather is nice and cool, and the surroundings are beautiful with flowers that smell wonderful when they bloom. You can see many people selling seasonal flowers on their bicycles on the sides of the streets. On a chilly morning, you may also see people selling hot tea.





Next stop is Da Nang, the biggest city in the central area! Da Nang is about an hour away from Hanoi by airplane. Many people from all over the world visit to see its many beautiful beaches.





The most famous tourist destination in Da Nang is Ba Na Hills, an amusement park on the top of a mountain. To get to Ba Na Hills, you have to ride a cable car up the mountain for about 20 minutes. On the way up, you can see lush forests, valleys, and waterfalls under your feet. You can go on fun rides and see shows at Ba Na Hills.





The river that flows through Da Nang is called the Han River. The name is the same as the Han River in Seoul. Da Nang’s Han River is famous for its special bridges. People’s favorite bridge in Da Nang is Dragon Bridge. On Saturday and Sunday nights, many people go there to see the dragon spitting water and fire.





The last city to visit is Ho Chi Minh City, the biggest city in south Vietnam and in the whole country. The city used to be called Saigon, but it has been renamed after Ho Chi Minh, a Vietnamese hero, since Vietnam became one country again in 1975.





The weather in Ho Chi Minh is like Korean summer all year round. There are two seasons: dry and rainy. It rains every day during the rainy season, and many people wear raincoats instead of using umbrellas.





Ho Chi Minh is a big city with lots of tall new buildings, but there are also many French buildings that were built long ago. The Central Post Office, which is still used, Duc Ba Cathedral, and the Opera House are all famous places for tourists. If you go to the central post office, you can send postcards to your friends in Korea.





Almost nine million people live in Ho Chi Minh City. Many cars and motorcycles fill the streets. Ho Chi Minh City is a busy city with lots of activity where you can see many people in the streets starting early in the morning.





Which of these cities in Vietnam do you want to visit the most?





“베트남 도시 여행” is licensed under CC BY 4.0 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.



© 2019 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture





