글 | 황티장 (Hoang Thi Trang)

그림 | 부온 일러스트레이션 (Vuon Illustration)

편집 | 김은파, 이수인

편집 디자인 | 이혜명

베트남어 번역 | 황티장

중국어 번역 | Wenting Du, 교정: 이흠

영어 번역 | 편하련, 교정: Laura Marie Kingdon

태국어 번역 | 김주영, 감수: 분타리까 너이씨 (บุณฑริกา น้อยศรี), 교정: 채혜민

목소리 | 한국어: 황창영, 베트남어: 레 쑤언 비, 중국어: 곡효여,

영어: 제인 페인터, 태국어: 페와 떼차마하몽콘





I went to a Vietnamese restaurant

글 | 황티장

그림 | 부온 일러스트레이션





Yesterday, my family ate with my uncle in a Vietnamese restaurant. My uncle, who knows a lot about Vietnamese cooking, said, “When you think of Vietnamese food, pho might be the first thing that comes to your mind. But there are lots of other Vietnamese foods.” Then he told me about some of those foods.





Vietnamese people eat rice for every meal, and they make either steamed rice or rice noodles. My uncle said that although it’s true that people all over Vietnam eat rice, each region has different tastes and has a special local dish.





My dad ordered “bun cha”, the most famous dish from the North. “Bun” means noodle and “cha” means “grilled pork.” Dad dipped the grilled pork, soft rice noodles, and fresh vegetables in a sauce. I also tried some.





The dipping sauce for bun cha is called “nuoc mam,” which is the most common seasoning in Vietnam. Made with fish, it is salty like soy sauce and the color of amber. It can be used as is, but when eating it with bun cha, people usually add water and sugar to make it sweet.





My sister ordered “bun bo”, the most famous dish from the center of Vietnam. It is a beef noodle soup and looks spicy like yuk-gae-jang, Korean spicy beef stew, because it has chili powder. People in the central part of Vietnam like to eat spicy food, so they use a lot of hot pepper and chili powder.





I had “com ga”, which does not taste spicy even though it is also from the central area. “Com” means rice and “ga” means chicken. Just like the name said, rice came with chicken, and the rice was soft and very, very tasty. That was because they used chicken broth and coconut milk to cook the rice.





My uncle ordered pho, rice noodles, which is most often eaten for breakfast or dinner in Vietnam. Rice noodles with beef broth is very popular in the north of Vietnam, and it has now become popular all over the world.





We also ordered “banh xeo”, a well-known dish from the southern area, to share with everyone. Uncle told me that “banh” means food made from rice or wheat flour, and “xeo” means the sizzling sound of something cooked in hot oil.





When I first saw the yellow banh xeo, I thought it was a fried egg. However, banh xeo’s yellow color comes not from an egg but from turmeric, often used in curries. Banh xeo is a fried pancake made with shrimp, pork, and bean sprouts in rice batter and is very crispy. I dipped it in nuoc mam sauce and ate it with many different vegetables.





The place where my family ate yesterday was a fancy restaurant, but Vietnamese people actually would rather eat street food or at small, old places. This is because they think that the food in those places tastes better. Next time, I would love to try some street food.





“베트남 음식점에 갔어요” is licensed under CC BY 4.0 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.



© 2019 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture





