글 | 이흠 (李鑫)

그림 | 오드리 유앵 (Audrey Yuang - 奧黛莉圓)

편집 | 김은파, 이수인

편집 디자인 | 이혜명

베트남어 번역 | 황티장

중국어 번역 | Wenting Du, 교정: 이흠

영어 번역 | Jennifer An

태국어 번역 | 김주영, 감수: 분타리까 너이씨 (บุณฑริกา น้อยศรี), 교정: 채혜민

목소리 | 한국어: 황창영, 베트남어: 레 쑤언 비, 중국어: 곡효여,

영어: 제인 페인터, 태국어: 페와 떼차마하몽콘





A Trip to Beijing, China

글 | 이흠

그림 | 오드리 유앵





Summer break is here. Jiwon goes on a trip to Beijing with his mom and dad. Beijing is the capital of China. It is about two hours away from Seoul by plane. Jiwon has been to Chinatown in Incheon, but it is the first time visiting China. He is very excited.





After arriving in Beijing, Jiwon first visits Tiananmen at the center of the city. At the center of Tiananmen is a portrait of Mao Zedong, a man highly respected by the people of China. At daybreak, the flag is flown in Tiananmen Square. People say everyone in China wants to see the flag hoisting ceremony in person.





As Jiwon walks on, he finds himself in front of the Gugong Bowuyuan, the Palace Museum. It is a palace called the Forbidden City, where the emperor once lived. It is incredibly huge with lots of buildings. Even the stairs and pillars are beautifully decorated. Jiwon is surprised to learn that there are over 8,000 rooms.





Next, he visits Yiheyuan, the Summer Palace which used to be the emperor’s garden. In the Summer Palace is an artificial lake called Kunming Lake. It is so large that Jiwon couldn’t believe it was made by people. Jiwon’s family takes a leisurely boat ride on the lake and then tours several buildings.





In the evening, they try roasted duck, a famous dish from Beijing. “Peking duck” is actually world-famous. Crispy roasted duck is wrapped in thin pancakes with scallions and cucumbers and topped with a sweet sauce. The whole family enjoys the dish.





The next day, they rise early to visit the Great Wall. The Great Wall was built over 2,000 years ago by Emperor Qin Shi Huang to defend the country from foreign attacks. Jiwon’s family visits the best-known portion of the Great Wall, Badaling.





The Great Wall winding along mountain ridges is awesome and wonderful to see. It takes several hours to hike up to a watchtower at the top of the wall. Jiwon’s clothes are soaked in sweat. But Jiwon climbs all the way to the top, taking breaks here and there.

“You could have given up if it was too hard, but you made it. Great job!” Jiwon’s mom is proud.





Jiwon’s family heads back to Beijing to visit the Olympic Green. The main stadium, Niaochao, means “bird’s nest.” Just like its name, it looks like a nest made of a collection of twigs. The outer wall of the nearby Aquatics Center looks like a bunch of bubbles. They are lit up with pretty colors at night.





Beijing zhajiangmian is on the menu for dinner. Unlike Korean jjajangmyeon that combines noodles and sauce in one bowl, the Beijing version comes with ingredients like noodles, sauce, beans, cucumbers and red radish served in separate bowls. Jiwon mixes the noodles with vegetables and sauce like he does with bibimbap. It is a little saltier than Korean jjajangmyeon.





On the third day, Jiwon visits Wangfujing Street known for its variety of street food. They wander around the alleys and pick out dishes that look good. Tanghulu is candied skewered fruit. The fruit is shiny like glass marbles. Jiwon’s eyes become wide at the sight of grasshopper skewers and even starfish skewers!





In Wangfujing Street, they find an alley dedicated to handmade crafts. There are all sorts of things from very old objects, fans and dolls to Chinese opera masks. Jiwon thinks about what gift to get for a friend. At last, he chooses a cute panda doll.





The last stop is Jing Ju, the traditional Chinese opera performance. Jiwon watches the actors get dressed before the performance. The complete transformation of their faces is striking. The show begins. Actors wearing makeup and colorful costumes sing and dance to traditional instruments.





On the flight back to Korea, Jiwon looks through all the pictures from the trip on dad’s phone. He has many stories to tell his friends once school starts again.

“Let me write everything down in my journal before I forget,” Jiwon murmurs to himself.





“중국 베이징에 갔어요” is licensed under CC BY 4.0 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.



© 2019 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture





