글 | 이흠 (李鑫)

그림 | 왕러 (Wang Le - 王乐)

편집 | 김은파, 이수인

편집 디자인 | 이혜명

베트남어 번역 | 황티장

중국어 번역 | Wenting Du, 교정: 이흠

영어 번역 | Jennifer An

태국어 번역 | 김주영, 감수: 분타리까 너이씨 (บุณฑริกา น้อยศรี), 교정: 채혜민

목소리 | 한국어: 황창영, 베트남어: 레 쑤언 비, 중국어: 곡효여,

영어: 제인 페인터, 태국어: 페와 떼차마하몽콘





Ringing in the Chinese New Year

글 | 이흠

그림 | 왕러





The Chinese New Year is the biggest holiday in China. People begin preparations on “Little Year” that falls on December 23 of the lunar calendar. Little Year is a day for cleaning and offering up a ritual for the kitchen god. I wake up early to help mother and father clean the house.





After Little Year, every household begins to prepare for the Chinese New Year. There is a lot to be done before we can send off the old year and welcome the new year. Household items like spoons, chopsticks, and plates are replaced with new ones. We must also prepare clothes to wear on New Year’s Day.





This Chinese New Year is even more special, because 2019, the Year of the Golden Pig, is my Zodiac Year of Birth. It means that my zodiac sign is repeated this year. In China, children and grown ups alike welcoming their zodiac year of birth wear red clothes. The color red is believed to bring in luck and cast out evil.





Every year, I help my mother shop for groceries for the New Year. The market is bustling with people getting ready for the Chinese New Year. We shop around for new utensils, dishes, and clothes. But there are too many kinds of red clothes for people celebrating their Zodiac Year, so it is hard to decide.





Mother picks out for me a red hoodie with a baby pig on it. It is perfect. We also buy red socks. I can’t wait to wear my new clothes on New Year’s Day.





The next day, father brings home New Year’s scrolls. The red scrolls are used to decorate doors or walls for the New Year. The scrolls contain four pieces of paper. Each sheet is inscribed with a message of good will. The character for “fortune” is written at the center. It feels good to see the scrolls and their words arranged neatly.





Chuxi is December 30 or the last day of the lunar year. Families gather on this day to cook food and dine together in the evening. Called Nian Ye Fan, it is a lavish dinner feast in celebration of the coming New Year.





All sorts of meat, fish, and vegetable dishes are prepared. Each dish has a special meaning. The fish is for wishing abundance year after year. Pig trotters are served in hopes of acquiring great wealth. The message is to grab money like the pig’s turned-in toes.





The number of dishes on the table must be even. There are usually six or eight, because six stands for ease and eight stands for wealth. We make 16 dishes, because we have so many relatives! It is such an abundant feast that I could be full just by looking at the table.





When dinner is ready, people pop firecrackers before they eat. I am a little scared, so I just peeked out from inside the house. After all the firecrackers are lit, everyone sits at the table to enjoy the meal.





When everyone is full, we play games. People usually play a traditional Chinese game called mahjong or cards. I play cards with my grandma and cousins. Then, we wait for midnight watching New Year’s Eve performances on TV.





Finally, the moderator begins the countdown. Five, four, three, two, one! Everyone shouts, “Xin Nian Kuai Le (Happy New Year)!” Fireworks bursting everywhere light up the night sky. We share New Year’s greetings with the family and send celebration messages to our friends.





The next day, January 1, we have dumplings for breakfast and say a special New Year’s greeting to grandma and family elders. Traditionally, people bowed down on their knees, but now we just exchange greetings. The grown ups give us money in red envelops. That is why New Year’s Day is a favorite holiday for many children.





When we visit relatives or neighbors to celebrate the New Year, we often bring milk or juice as gifts. There are many people on the streets wearing red and carrying drinks. I also change into my new red hoodie and visit my relatives with my parents.





The Chinese New Year extends until January 6 of the lunar calendar. On January 5, families gather once again to eat dumplings and other delicious foods. On January 6, everyone rests at home and gets ready to go back to their routine. Now that the long holiday is over, the only thing left is to fill this year with fun and exciting events!





“즐거운 춘절 맞이” is licensed under CC BY 4.0 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.



© 2019 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture





