글 | 로스비 모히카 성 (Rosevi Mojica-Sung)

그림 | 미아 라고스 (Mia Lagos)

편집 | 김은파, 이수인, Mike Jaffe

편집 디자인 | 이혜명

베트남어 번역 | 황티장

중국어 번역 | Wenting Du, 교정: 이흠

한국어 번역 | 김은파

태국어 번역 | 김주영, 감수: 분타리까 너이씨 (บุณฑริกา น้อยศรี), 교정: 채혜민

목소리 | 한국어: 윤성혜, 베트남어: 레 쑤언 비, 중국어: 곡효여,

영어: 제인 페인터, 태국어: 페와 떼차마하몽콘





Legend of Rice

글 | 로스비 모히카 성

그림 | 미아 라고스





Long ago, there lived a tribe. They lived on fish from the river and fruits from the trees. The tribe was happy and satisfied by the food they gathered in nature.





One day, there was a severe drought. The trees and plants began to die. The rivers began to dry. The food that they had found in nature began to disappear. The tribe only had enough food to survive for one month. The tribe needed someone to find a new source of food.





The tribe called on Anita, its youngest and best hunter. Since she was young, Anita had been trained to find food and survive in the forest. Now 20 years old, Anita was smart, strong and brave. She loved to ride horses and travel to far-away places.





“I need to find a place where there is food,” Anita told her mother. “Don’t worry about me! I will be back with a solution.” “I know you can do it,” her mother replied. “I always believe in you. Take care!” “I prepared water and dried fruits for you,” Anita’s father reminded her with a big smile. “Just eat when you are hungry!”





Anita spent five days searching for food. But she could not find anywhere with green trees, plants or water. Anita became very tired and her horse was very hungry! Anita took a rest behind a big rock and ate the last dried fruit she had. She watched the golden color of the sunset and fell asleep.





The next morning, Anita was surprised when she opened her eyes and saw a big basket full of fruits. “Wow! Bananas, mangoes and pineapples!” Anita said to herself. “Where am I? Am I dreaming?” Anita closed her eyes and opened them again, because she couldn’t believe it. She couldn’t wait to eat her favorite ripe banana.





“Eat the food, Anita. You need to be strong and healthy!” The voice had come from a beautiful fairy. “I am the fairy who takes care of this forest. I have watched you since you were a child. Why are you here?” The fairy asked Anita. “Our tribe has no food to eat,” said Anita. “I need to find a solution to our problem. Thank you for these fruits, I’m really hungry!”





“Come here, Anita. Let’s walk to my garden,” the fairy said. The garden was filled with grain plants that swayed in the wind. “Do you see those grains? Help me gather them.” Anita helped the fairy pick the grains. The fairy showed her how to pound the grains to remove the golden covers. Then, she cooked the white kernels in water to make them soft. “It tastes good!” Anita said.





“These grains are called “palay” — rice,” the fairy said. “Go back to your tribe and plant these grains. You should save some grains to plant again every time you harvest. Learn to farm palay and teach your tribe.” Anita ate a lot of palay and then took a short nap.





Anita awoke when she felt raindrops on her face. She opened her eyes and was amazed to see she was holding something in her right hand. It was a “bayong” containing palay grains. Bayong is a Filipino traditional bag made by weaving dried leaves.





Then she noticed she was no longer in the fairy’s garden. She was back behind the big rock, and her horse was beside her. “Was I dreaming?” Anita wondered. “But these golden grains are real! I will bring these grains to our tribe. Thank you, Fairy,” Anita whispered.





Anita returned home safely. Her mother and father were very happy to see her again. Anita showed everyone the golden grains. She remembered everything the fairy told her, and taught the people of the tribe how to farm the golden grains. And from that day on, people learned to farm and eat delicious palay.





“쌀의 전설” is licensed under CC BY 4.0 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.



© 2019 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture





