글 | 로스비 모히카 성 (Rosevi Mojica-Sung)

그림 | 지야 류테료 (Gia Leuterio)

편집 | 김은파, 이수인, Mike Jaffe

편집 디자인 | 이혜명

베트남어 번역 | 황티장

중국어 번역 | Wenting Du, 교정: 이흠

한국어 번역 | 김은파

태국어 번역 | 김주영, 감수: 분타리까 너이씨 (บุณฑริกา น้อยศรี), 교정: 채혜민

목소리 | 한국어: 윤성혜, 베트남어: 레 쑤언 비, 중국어: 곡효여,

영어: 제인 페인터, 태국어: 페와 떼차마하몽콘





Christmas in the Philippines

글 | 로스비 모히카 성

그림 | 지야 류테료





Marilag lives in Busan with her mother, father and older sister Amihan. Marilag has big eyes like her Filipina mother and a fair skin like her Korean father. She is in 3rd grade and loves to dance like K-pop idols. Her birthday is on Christmas day!





One day, Amihan and Marilag awoke to the sound of a Christmas carol. Marilag was confused. “It’s not December yet,” Amihan told her mother. “Why are you playing Christmas songs?” “In the Philippines, the Christmas season starts at the beginning of the ber months, from September to December,” her mother explained. “Starting in September, you might hear Christmas songs everywhere!”





Marilag loves Christmas because it is also her birthday. She was anticipating this Christmas even more as they would visit in the Philippines over the Christmas holidays. She likes to visit malls and see the big Christmas trees, Christmas decorations and “parol”, a symbol of the Filipino Christmas spirit — a Christmas lantern with different colors that looks like a big star.





Amihan and Marilag’s mother bought different “pasalubong” to give to their relatives in the Phillipines as Christmas gifts. Pasalubong is a Filipino tradition of gift-giving for family, friends or acquaintances. It is a present or souvenir bought by someone who travels, and it shows loved ones that you are happy to be back home safely. Amihan and Marilag prepared the Christmas pasalubong for their cousins in the Philippines.





Marilag’s family arrived in the Philippines on December 24, a day before Christmas. Christmas is a special holiday for Filipino families. Many Filipino overseas workers return home for Christmas. There were so many people in the airport. There were traffic jams everywhere. People were busy buying Christmas foods like ham and “bibingka” — a native rice cake.





Marilag’s family went straight to their Lolo’s house — Lolo means grandfather. Amihan and Marilag bowed to their grandfather and pressed their forehead on his hand, saying “Mano po Lolo.” “Mano po” is the traditional Filipino gesture for giving respect to elders. Amihan and Marilag greeted other relatives, too.





Amihan and Marilag went to the church with their relatives at 10 PM, for “Misa de Gallo” — the late mass on Christmas eve. After the mass, the whole family came back home and prepared lots of delicious food for Christmas Eve. Amihan, Marilag and their cousins were excited to open their gifts under a big Christmas tree!





A group of children who sang Christmas carols visited Lolo’s house. In the Philippines, there is a tradition of children singing carols door to door on Chistrmas Eve. They receive food or a small amount of money in return. Amihan and Marilag’s mother gave 100 Pesos to the children, who sang their last song. “Thank you! Thank you!” The children said.





The clock struck midnight. It is a tradition for Filipino families to have a midnight dinner after they attended the Misa de Gallo. The whole family ate together, shared stories and exchanged gifts. The cousins sang songs, and Marilag danced like a K-pop idol. And she blew out the candles on her birthday cake!





The next morning, children in the neighborhood knocked on Lolo’s door. They visited to wish a merry Christmas. Lolo gave them small toys as Christmas gifts. All of the children were happy and thankful as they left Lolo’s house. “Maraming salamat po — thank you very much!” The children said.





“필리핀의 크리스마스” is licensed under CC BY 4.0 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.



© 2019 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture





