글 | 로스비 모히카 성 (Rosevi Mojica-Sung)

그림 | 지야 류테료 (Gia Leuterio)

편집 | 김은파, 이수인, Mike Jaffe

편집 디자인 | 이혜명

베트남어 번역 | 황티장

중국어 번역 | Wenting Du, 교정: 이흠

영어 번역 |

태국어 번역 | 김주영, 감수: 분타리까 너이씨 (บุณฑริกา น้อยศรี), 교정: 채혜민

목소리 | 한국어: 윤성혜, 베트남어: 레 쑤언 비, 중국어: 곡효여,

영어: 제인 페인터, 태국어: 페와 떼차마하몽콘





7th Birthday Party

글 | 로스비 모히카 성

그림 | 지야 류테료





Amihan is a tall girl who lives in Busan. She was born in the Philippines and moved to Korea when she was five years old. She speaks Korean with her Dad, and Filipino and English with her Mom. She is a 6th grader in elementary school and three years older than her sister, Marilag. And she loves to ride a bicycle!





Amihan and Marliag visited the Philippines during the Christmas holidays. They also celebrated their youngest cousin Anton’s 7th birthday. A child’s 7th birthday is considered very important in the Philippines, so it is celebrated on a bigger scale than usual. “What gift would you like for your birthday?” Amihan asked Anton on the day before his birthday. “I want a bicycle,” Anton replied. “Bicycles are also my favorite,” said Amihan.





On the morning of Anton’s birthday, Amihan’s Lolo (grandfather) and Tito (uncle) cooked a “lechon”, a whole pig roasted over charcoal. It is a popular dish for special occasions like fiestas (feasts) and birthday celebrations. The smell was so good! Amihan couldn’t wait and asked, “When can I taste that big lechon? It looks very delicious!” “We will eat this for lunch,” Tito replied.





Tita (aunt) cooked “pancit”, which is a noodle dish, along with fruit salad and special desserts. Pancit is typically served for birthday celebrations. “Pancit came from China,” Tita explained to Amihan. “People eat pancit on birthdays, believing that eating long noodles will help them live long lives.”





Finally, guests arrived. “Anton, your classmates are here!” Tita called out. Ate (sister) Mayumi, Anton’s elder sister, prepared lots of games. Amihan and Marilag helped her wrap the prizes. “We’re going to play games. There are lots of prizes!” Mayumi excitedly told the children who came to the party.





First, Amihan joined a game of “pukpok palayok”. In this game, whoever hits the clay pot suspended in the air is the winner. The player gets blindfolded and rotated a few times. Then, other children yell out which direction to go. Each player has only one chance. If the player succeeds at breaking the clay pot, candies, coins and small snacks inside the pot fall. Amihan tried, but she couldn’t hit the clay pot.





Next, Amihan and Marilag joined in “pabitin”, which is one of the most popular games at Filipino children’s birthday parties. Small toys and candies are tied on a frame made of bamboo sticks, hung in the air. While an operator lowers or raises the frame with a rope, players jump to grab anything they can reach. Marilag was able to grab some candies, and Amihan grabbed the biggest toy!





Then, it was time to blow out the candles on the birthday cake. The cake looked great, with a basketball hoop decorating the top. People at the party sang a birthday song. “What is your wish?” Mayumi asked Anton. “I want to be a basketball player like Daddy!” Anton said. Basketball is a very popular sport in the Philippines.





When the birthday party was over, all the guests left, and Anton was excited to open his birthday gifts. “Wow, a robot, a bag, and shoes!” He exclaimed. Then, he opened the big present from Amihan and Marilag’s family. “A new bike! This is the best gift ever. Thank you, Ate Amihan and Ate Marilag!” said Anton.





The next day, Amihan taught Anton how to ride a bicycle. Anton fell many times, but Amihan kindly and patiently helped her cousin. Finally, Anton learned how to ride a bicycle. Now Amihan and Anton can ride bikes together!





“일곱 번째 생일 파티” is licensed under CC BY 4.0 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.



© 2019 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture





