글 | 로스비 모히카 성 (Rosevi Mojica-Sung)

그림 | 앤 멕 아르보탄테 (Ann Megg Arbotante)

편집 | 김은파, 이수인, Mike Jaffe

편집 디자인 | 이혜명

베트남어 번역 | 황티장

중국어 번역 | Wenting Du, 교정: 이흠

한국어 번역 | 김은파

태국어 번역 | 김주영, 감수: 분타리까 너이씨 (บุณฑริกา น้อยศรี), 교정: 채혜민

목소리 | 한국어: 윤성혜, 베트남어: 레 쑤언 비, 중국어: 곡효여,

영어: 제인 페인터, 태국어: 페와 떼차마하몽콘





Enteng the Red Tricycle

글 | 로스비 모히카 성

그림 | 앤 멕 아르보탄테





This is Enteng, the red tricycle. Tricycles are a common means of transportation in the Philippines. A tricycle is a three-wheeled motorcycle with a sidecar to load passengers. Enteng’s driver is named Mang Pablo. He is a very kind tricycle driver.





Enteng and Mang Pablo live in the small community of Santo Tomas. This community is named after the patron saint, Santo Tomas.





Every year, the community celebrates the feast of Santo Tomas. It is one of the busiest days of the year for Enteng and Mang Pablo. Filipinos have feasts to thank and praise their patron saints. They also ask for blessings, like good harvest or good health.





“Are you ready to go out?” Mang Pablo asked Enteng early on the day of the feast. “Yes, boss!” Enteng replied. Enteng and Mang Pablo began to drive. They brought many families to the market and the church.





As the day went on, Enteng and Mang Pablo were slowed because of a traffic jam in the road that was caused by a long procession of people.

“Why do people join the procession?” Enteng asked Mang Pablo.

“On the day of the feast, people join the procession to give thanks to or ask blessings from Santo Tomas,” Mang Pablo replied.

“I see!” said Enteng. “I will be careful of them while they are walking near me.”





After they left the traffic jam, Enteng brought a group of passengers to the “perya”. The perya is a Filipino cultural carnival set up during a town feast. It is very popular as it provides entertainment to the town folks such as rides, games and unique shows.





There were many, many people at the perya. While waiting for the passengers, Enteng saw children having fun. It was a busy day for Enteng, but Enteng was happy to see their big smiles!





At the end of the day, Enteng and Mang Pablo went home, but then Mang Pablo went back out.

“Where are you going?” Enteng asked.

“We spent all day taking people to the church, the market, and the perya,” said Mang Pablo. “Now, I will go to church to thank Santo Tomas for YOU, Enteng — the best tricycle a driver could ask for!”





“빨간 트라이시클 엔텡” is licensed under CC BY 4.0 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.



© 2019 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture





