글 | 로스비 모히카 성 (Rosevi Mojica-Sung)

그림 | 앤 멕 아르보탄테 (Ann Megg Arbotante)

편집 | 김은파, 이수인, Mike Jaffe

편집 디자인 | 이혜명

베트남어 번역 | 황티장

중국어 번역 | Wenting Du, 교정: 이흠

한국어 번역 | 김은파

태국어 번역 | 김주영, 감수: 분타리까 너이씨 (บุณฑริกา น้อยศรี), 교정: 채혜민

목소리 | 한국어: 윤성혜, 베트남어: 레 쑤언 비, 중국어: 곡효여,

영어: 제인 페인터, 태국어: 페와 떼차마하몽콘





Pogi the Yellow Jeepney

글 | 로스비 모히카 성

그림 | 앤 멕 아르보탄테





This is Pogi, the yellow jeepney. Jeepneys are a common means of transportation in the Philippines. They are small buses made from the American jeeps left in the Philippines after the Second World War. Pogi is a good looking jeepney with colorful decorations. Pogi’s driver, Mang Juan, loves to play music inside the jeepney.





One day, Mang Juan said to Pogi,

“Tomorrow is the opening of the new school year. We will be busy again!”

In the Philippines, the school year opens in June. It is also the start of rainy season, and often the typhoon season.





The first day of school was really hot. Mang Juan took a rest during lunchtime, eating “halo-halo”, a shaved ice dessert similar to the Korean patbingsu. Pogi also took a break.

“I heard from the news that it will rain today,” Pogi said.

“But look at the warm sunshine!”

“Right, but we need to be ready,” Mang Juan said. “It’s the start of the monsoon season, so it could rain anytime!”





In the Philippines, vehicles such as buses, tricycles, or jeepneys like Pogi pick up students from their houses in the morning and bring them to school. After school, the students are picked up again and brought back home. At four in the afternoon, Pogi was waiting for children in front of the school. Suddenly, heavy rain started to fall. The rainfall continued, and the water level in front of the school started to rise.





Enteng the Tricycle was waiting for students next to Pogi.

“Pogi, I cannot bring my two students to their house,” Enteng said. “The water level is too high! Can you help me?”

“Yes, I can bring them home,” Pogi replied. “No worries!”





When the students came out of the school, they saw the high water and were worried. But then Mang Juan got out.

“Don’t worry!” Mang Juan told the children. “Pogi and I will get you all home safely. And we will listen to some fun music along the way!”

After that, the children felt better. Mang Juan helped them get onto Pogi and find seats, and they all drove off together.





Mang Juan and Pogi drove slowly and safely in the rain, and they brought all the children back to their houses. All of the children’s parents were very thankful to Mang Juan.

“See you tomorrow!” Mang Juan and Pogi called to the children. The children waved goodbye to them as they drove away.





After dropping off the last child, the rain finally stopped.

“Pogi, you did a great job today!” Mang Juan said. “Thank you so much.”

“No worries, Mang Juan!” Pogi replied. “I like driving with you, rain or shine.”





“노란 지프니 포기” is licensed under CC BY 4.0 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.



© 2019 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture





