글 | 로스비 모히카 성 (Rosevi Mojica-Sung)

그림 | 제랄딘 시 (Geraldine Sy)

편집 | 김은파, 이수인, Mike Jaffe

편집 디자인 | 이혜명

베트남어 번역 | 황티장

중국어 번역 | Wenting Du, 교정: 이흠

한국어 번역 | 김은파

태국어 번역 | 김주영, 감수: 분타리까 너이씨 (บุณฑริกา น้อยศรี), 교정: 채혜민

목소리 | 한국어: 윤성혜, 베트남어: 레 쑤언 비, 중국어: 곡효여,

영어: 제인 페인터, 태국어: 페와 떼차마하몽콘





Only in the Philippines: Did you know?

글 | 로스비 모히카 성

그림 | 제랄딘 시





I am Kaloy, a carabao (water buffalo)! Carabao, which is called kalabaw in the Filipino language, is the national animal in the Philippines. I am a farmer’s best friend and I also symbolize the hard working spirit of Filipinos. Join me in learning some interesting facts about the Philippines! Tara na! (Let’s go!)





1. The Philippines is an archipelago.

The Philippines is one of the largest archipelago nations in the world. An archipelago is a group of islands. At present, the Philippines consists of 7,641 islands. Only around 2,000 islands are inhabited and more than 5,000 islands are still unnamed. There may be more islands to be discovered in the future.





2. The Philippine flag can show whether the country is at war or not.

The left side of the Philippine flag features eight rays of the sun and three stars inside a white triangle. On the right side, it has a stripe of red and blue colors. When the country is at peace, the blue color is on top. When the country is at war, the red color is placed on top. The Philippines is the only country with a flag designed this way. Pretty interesting, isn’t it?





3. The majority of the Filipinos can speak two or three languages.

The Philippine archipelago has thousands of islands, so it’s not surprising that more than 180 languages are used in the country. Most Filipinos can speak the official languages of the Philippines - Filipino and English - as well as a native dialect of the region where they live.





4. Filipinos love to smile.

Filipinos are well known as friendly people who are warm and welcoming, even to strangers. The Filipino smile is meant to show visitors or foreigners that guests are welcome to be with them. Due to such a beautiful smile and welcoming attitude, many visitors from all over the world have come to love the Philippines.





Foreigners may be surprised to see Filipinos smiling even during difficult situations, like after typhoons or earthquakes. But smiling in a difficult situation means being thankful for what you still have. Filipinos are very positive people.





5. The Philippines has the longest Christmas season in the world.

The Philippines has the largest number of Christians in Asia, and the majority of Filipinos are Catholics. Christmas is the most important holiday in the Philippines. The Christmas season in the Philippines is very long; it starts in September and ends at the beginning of January. Starting in September, you can hear Christmas carols and see decorations wherever you go!





6. New Year’s Eve in the Philippines is full of superstitions.

On New Year’s Eve, Filipino children wear polka dot clothing designed using anything round. This is because they believe that the round or circular shape symbolizes money and fortune. When the clock strikes midnight, children jump high in the air, believing that it will make them grow taller.





7. The jeepney is the most common means of public transportation in the Philippines.

Jeepneys were originally made from the US military jeeps left in the Philippines after the Second World War. They are used as a public service nationwide, where the owners creatively customize them in bright colors and decorations. A jeepney can hold many passengers depending on the size. In some provinces, passengers can even ride on top of a jeepney!





8. Bohol Island is famous for its hills.

In Bohol island, there are more than one thousand cone-shaped hills. They are covered in green grass during rainy season, but in summer season, the grasses get dry and the hills turn into a chocolate brown color. Then, each hill looks like a giant chocolate Kiss. Therefore, these hills are called the Chocolate Hills.





Based on one legend about the hills, there once lived a giant who loved a human woman. When the woman died, the giant cried many tears, and the hills appeared where his tears fell. On the other hand, scientists explain that the hills were formed from coral limestone raised up from the sea, slowly eroded and formed into their present shape.





9. “Halo-halo” is a refreshing snack on a hot summer day in the Philippines.

Halo-halo is a shaved-ice dessert, with sweetened, condensed milk and fruits added to it. The name “halo-halo” means “mix-mix” in English. As the name suggests, one should mix all the ingredients together so it will bring out the best taste. Some common ingredients are sweetened red beans, banana and coconut, but each province or shop has its own ingredients. If you visit the Philippines, try different halo-halo and find your favorite flavors!





“필리핀에 대한 아홉 가지 사실” is licensed under CC BY 4.0 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.



© 2019 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture





