글 | 김주영

그림 | 처꿍 (Chorkung - ฉ่อกุง)

편집 | 김은파, 이수인

편집 디자인 | 이혜명

베트남어 번역 | 황티장

중국어 번역 | Wenting Du, 교정: 이흠

영어 번역 | Jennifer An

태국어 번역 | 김주영, 감수: 분타리까 너이씨 (บุณฑริกา น้อยศรี), 교정: 채혜민

목소리 | 한국어: 윤성혜, 베트남어: 레 쑤언 비, 중국어: 곡효여,

영어: 제인 페인터, 태국어: 페와 떼차마하몽콘





Songkran, the Water Festival

글 | 김주영

그림 | 처꿍





Songkran, the Thai New Year celebration, falls on April 13 to 15. In ancient times, Thai people determined the beginning of the new year by the position of the sun and the stars in the sky. These days, January 1 is also celebrated as New Year’s Day, but Songkran in April is considered more significant and calls for a larger celebration.





During Songkran, the whole family gets together for various activities. Many of them take place at temples, since Thailand is a Buddhist country. Payu, who lives in Bangkok, is on his way to the temple early in the morning to celebrate Songkran.





Like many Thai people, Payu’s parents give offerings to monks every morning. Offerings consist of carefully prepared dishes and goods. Today is a special day, so Payu’s family decides to take the offerings to the temple in person.





When they arrive at the temple, they first bow and pray in front of Buddha’s statue. The statue is sparkly clean, because the monks had draped it in new clothes at dawn. Payu prays to Buddha for his family to be healthy and happy.





After the prayer, dishes and goods prepared at home are offered to the monks. A monk blesses the family by sprinkling their heads with sacred aromatic water.





Now, Payu pours a little bit of sacred water over many statues with his parents. Pouring sacred water on the statue symbolizes cleaning the Buddha for the new year.





People also pour sand brought from outside next to a pagoda inside the temple. Some people make little pagodas with the sand and decorate them with flowers. Payu wonders why people bring sand to the temple.





His parents explain, “When people leave the temple, they unknowingly take some sand with them on the soles of their shoes.” “So it is a gesture of bringing the sand back to the temple.”





Before they head home, Payu’s family decide to release some animals. Releasing an animal is to let an animal that has been caught by people go back to nature. Thai people believe their previous sins are taken away with the animals that are released.





Payu buys cute little turtles from a market near the temple. His parents buy fish and birds. The turtles are so cute that Payu wants to take them home, but the family release the turtles and the fish in the river and the birds in the sky.





On the way home, they see many people celebrating Songkran by spraying water at each other. Payu hurries home to join in on the water-spraying fun. He changes into a colorful floral costume and fills a water gun with cold water. It is very hot, since April is the hottest month of the year in Thailand, but Payu is excited.





People shoot water guns at each other like Payu. Some people pour water with buckets. Yet others climb in the back of a truck and pour water on passersby. Payu is also soaked form head to toe. He has a lot of fun with foreign friends who traveled to Thailand to experience the Songkran festival.





The tradition of spraying water during Songkran symbolizes washing away all bad things and cleansing the mind and body for the new year. The tradition has now become an event not to be missed during Songkran. Songkran is now a world-famous water festival.





During Songkran, the days are filled with festivities from morning till night. To Thai people like Payu and his family and foreigners alike, Songkran is a festival that presents many happy memories!





“물의 축제 송끄란” is licensed under CC BY 4.0 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.



© 2019 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture





