글 | 김주영

그림 | 오라체리백 (auracherrybag)

편집 | 김은파, 이수인

편집 디자인 | 이혜명

베트남어 번역 | 황티장

중국어 번역 | Wenting Du, 교정: 이흠

영어 번역 | Jennifer An

태국어 번역 | 김주영, 감수: 분타리까 너이씨 (บุณฑริกา น้อยศรี), 교정: 채혜민

목소리 | 한국어: 윤성혜, 베트남어: 레 쑤언 비, 중국어: 곡효여,

영어: 제인 페인터, 태국어: 페와 떼차마하몽콘





An Exciting Trip to Thailand

글 | 김주영

그림 | 오라체리백





On a cold winter day, Juseong and his family leave for Thailand where it is warm. They were in thick coats at the airport in Korea. But Bangkok, the capital of Thailand, is sunny with blue skies and quite hot.





Strange, wriggly Thai letters are on every sign at the airport. Juseong practices Thai greetings he learned before the trip. “Sa wat dee khrap.” His older sisters bring their hands together and bow. “Sa wat dee kha.” Thai greetings differ slightly depending on the speaker’s gender.





There are pictures of a man decorated in gold everywhere. “Who is that?” wonders Juseong. “The king of Thailand,” mother explains. “He is very loved and revered by Thai people.”





The next morning, the family visits the royal palace. The old palace is open to tourists. It is not the one where the current king lives. A beautiful, wide tree-lined road leads to the palace.





A structure shines in gold in the distance. Juseong exclaims, “That must be the palace!” Big sister looks at the tour guide and explains that it is actually Wat Phra Kaew, the Temple of Emerald Buddha, right next to the palace. Among many Buddhist temples in Thailand, it is the most beautiful and famous.





After touring the temple and the palace in hot weather, Juseong is soaked in sweat. Juseong’s family stops in front of a fruit cart. There are many interesting fruits he has never seen before. His family buys a few coconuts and drinks their juice with straws.





It is time for lunch. The menu is full of unfamiliar dishes. Second sister wants pad thai. Pad thai is a stir-fried noodle dish. Juseong likes the sweet and sour flavors of pad thai.





“Try some tom yum goong, too.” Juseong tastes the soup with shrimp as dad suggests. It’s tangy and spicy and even a little sweet. Thai food has interesting aromas because a lot of spices are used to cook Thai dishes.





After lunch, the family heads to a beach in Pattaya, a city not far from Bangkok. They see downtown Bangkok pass by from the car. A train runs through a forest of skyscrapers, and the streets are full of cars. Every now and then, Juseong spots a park full of green trees.





“Are there no mountains in Thailand?” asks Juseong. “Yes, there are.” “Most of them are in northern Thailand,” his parents explain. Thailand is about five times the size of South Korea. Most of the land is wide and flat, so it is great for agriculture.





Pattaya’s beaches are full of tourists from all over the world. It is a popular destination, since Thailand is famous for its beautiful beaches. There are boats large and small on the ocean, and people are flying over the water on colorful parachutes in the sky.





Juseong’s family rides a boat out to the sea. The emerald sea water is so clear that they can see all the fish swimming. Juseong and his sisters wear a life jacket and goggles and watch the fish in the water.





They travel all day, but there is still a lot more to see. Juseong is excited for the rest of his trip. There is so much to eat and so much to do. Someday, he wants to learn how to read Thai letters!





“신나는 태국 여행” is licensed under CC BY 4.0 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.



© 2019 by Enuma, Inc. & The Foundation SeeArt for Book Culture





